+++
title = "Bounded extension algebras and Han's conjecture"
date = 2020-07-09T13:00:00-00:00
tags = ["Hochschild homology",
        "relative", 
        "Han'conjecture"
]

affiliation = "Universidad de Buenos Aires"
location = "AR"
latitude = "-34.64693"
longitude = "-58.34457"

[speaker]
  name = "Andrea Solotar"
  homepage = "mate.dm.uba.ar/~asolotar/"
+++
Given a finite dimensional algebra \\(A\\) over a field \\(k\\), Han's conjecture relates two homological invariants associated to \\(A\\):
its global dimension and its Hochschild homology. In the commutative case -- non necessarily finite dimensional but finitely generated -- the finiteness of the global dimension is equivalent to the fact that \\(A\\) is geometrically regular, see for example [**3**, 9.3.13].
More precisely, Han's conjecture states that for \\(A\\) finite dimensional, \\(A\\) is smooth if and only if \\(HH_n(A)=0\\) for \\(n\gg0\\). The direct implication known to be is true.

We proved in [**1**] that the class \\(\mathcal{H}\\) of finite dimensional algebras  which verify Han's conjecture [**2**] is closed under split bounded extensions. More precisely if \\(A=B\oplus M\\) is such an extension, then \\(A\in\mathcal{H}\\) if and only if \\(B\in\mathcal{H}\\). The proofs make use of the Jacobi--Zariski long exact sequence, and of the reduced relative bar resolution.

I will explain this result and a generalization for algebras that are non necessarily split.
As a consequence of our work, we prove that in some cases, adding or deleting arrows to a quiver -- even adding or deleting certain relations --
does not change the situation with respect to Han's conjecture. 

This talk contains joint work with Claude Cibils, Marcelo Lanzilotta and Eduardo Marcos.

[**1**] Claude Cibils, Marcelo Lanzilotta, Eduardo N. Marcos and Andrea Solotar. _Split bounded extension algebras and Han's conjecture._ To appear in Pacific Journal of Mathematics ([`arXiv:1908.11130`](https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.11130)).

[**2**] Yang Han. _Hochschild (co)homology dimension._ J. London Math. Soc. 73 (2006), pp. 657--668.

[**3**] Charles Weibel. _An introduction to homological algebra._ Cambridge University Press, 1994.
